---
layout: post
title: Twitter Data
---
Can we predict the success of a movie sequel based on the performance of previous films in the franchise? I set out to answer this question for our second project at Metis.  
  
I gathered the set of all films listed under movie franchises on boxofficemojo.com. My goal was to predict the success of a movie sequel (i.e., domestic gross in USD) based on the overall performance of other sequels, and especially based on previous films in that particular franchise. I applied a Linear Regression model to find the expected gross domestic earnings of a movie sequel.  
  
  
### Step 1 - Data retrieval
I started with the "Franchises" list on Boxofficemojo.com. Within each franchise page, I scraped each movie's information and enter it into a Python dictionary. If it's already in the dictionary, the entry will be overwritten, except with a different Franchise name. But note below that the url for "Franchises" list was sorted Ascending, so this conveniently rolls "subfranchises" into their "parent" franchise. E.g., _Fantastic Beasts_ and the _Harry Potter_ movies have their own separate Franchises, but they will all be tagged as the _JKRowling_ franchise.
  
Also, because I was comparing sequels to their predecessors, I focused on Domestic Gross, but adjusted for ticket price inflation over time.  
  
See my [Project Notebook](https://github.com/ptpro3/ptpro3.github.io/blob/master/Projects/Project2/Project2_Prashant.ipynb) for my webscraping code using the BeautifulSoup tool.  
